thanks everyone for joining yes
George just said it would be the purpose
of these is to make it interactive so
I've got you guts in between different
sections of the slides to to raise any
questions for us things that you have
not understood in the process but yeah
these things supposed to be a brief
history of information centric nipples
which I mean we have discussed with most
of you has been a kind of a parallel
research area involving academia but
only big the web there are big
industries involved there and there has
been quite some work done there so it
would be I think very beneficial for
people are you know working in on ipfs
and BJP to just get an idea of what has
been done and then possibly dive deeper
I'm gonna follow up wardrobes or
in-person meetings to see if you know
there are interesting features that we
could adopt and follow up on in a PFS in
the b2b so yeah okay for those that we
have not met my name is Yummy's lecturer
at University College London and I'm
research labs mainly working in areas
related to condom routine DHD and things
like that
in fact okay I have just not that long
ago so yeah probably we haven't
interrupted too much with many of you so
have been working at UCL since the
beginning of 2010 and those last all
those years the main point of work
basically was information centric
networks and we have done quite a few
words from arranging the long span from
architectural from the architectural
perspective from caching perspective
from content delivery perspective
mobility and pretty much all sorts of
things lately we have been working on
distribute them decentralized edge
computing where what we've seen is that
instead of addressing static content we
wanted to address computation itself and
be able to trigger basically
confrontation through some addressable
structure so there is nice page there
which I have recently put together story
together with links to papers it might
be an interesting read if you want to
see what we thing around here for the
future of the network so in terms of the
icin of the ICN community one place
where someone could find interesting
information is the IRT F group so the
IRT F stands for internet research task
force which is the research branch of
the internet Engineering Task Force the
IETF where most of the standards for
internet protocols are being developed
so the IRT F is looking a little bit
into more futuristic things maybe or you
know things that do not have space in
the standards community yet or you know
that's one the chairs of each group
thing so there are quite a few
interesting informational drafts there
so it's an important thing it doesn't
cover research like pure research things
so it doesn't cover papers and things
like that but the point the few
interesting internet thoughts and
information are RFC's that someone could
get a good idea of where you know where
where the thinking behind it is heading
so the idea I mean the OSI Energy Group
is making together with every you know
iedf which is taking place three times a
year and sometimes their interim
meetings in between those meetings in
between the main IETF meetings very
interesting discussion generally over
the years
the area also has a conference which is
sponsored by ACM it's been don't know
it's been in public since 2011 or
something he started as a workshop
together with a CMC compa then it became
a conference this year is taking place
in Hong Kong in September they're going
to be quite a few interesting papers
there so it might be something to keep
an eye on those can attend but those
that not there are going to be some
interesting papers out so what's an
essay okay so that's roughly the outline
of what I would like to talk about there
are three parts so I'm going to give a
quick introduction to information
centric networks where you know them a
little bit more technical bits than what
I have just said then there is the part
where I have selected three
representative projects such have
specific features which I think could be
useful for I definitely a pitch be I'm
going to talk about each one of them for
about 15 minutes and then we can have
some discussion and you know questions
and answers but feel free to interrupt
it doesn't matter but it's just roughly
what it's going to look like and then
there is a final part where I have some
of my own thoughts and kind of design
proposals for for what I think so far
having looked a little bit deeper into
idea fess and leave it be
so it's actually worth mentioning that's
terminology might be all over the place
or you might be you might be saying the
same thing in two different ways using
different words so just feel free to
interrupt basically and yeah ask what is
that all you know if it's done
differently in your dictionary to avoid
further confusion so yeah so what the
motivation for ICN has been low the
motivation oh I see n
has been pretty much the same as it is
with as it has been with ipfs from the
beginning that the network is basically
content agnostic and the content is
location dependent so these makes makes
it a little bit steep and difficult to
you know think of the network as a
native content distribution that so
people who have you know have come up
with you know observations and
measurements that is to show that most
of what of the applications that we use
today need a native very efficient
content distribution network but what we
have instead is pulling two point
connections and these in the long term
is not going to be very supportive of
all the things that we have want to do
with the Internet so by naming
individual content objects what is
happening is that we can have more
security in some cases there's better
support for mobility and there's also
making support for multicast or if not
native it can be achieved much easier so
that has been the starting point which I
mean I have heard many people from my
affair saying exactly the same thing so
I guess allowing them that so people
starting took it you know X what can we
do with on CNBC's up to the present day
and which is not exactly the right
question to ask in my opinion so you
know if we can do things in an easier
way then that's already a start
you know we can always do things but if
performance and where we do this have
optimal then things will eventually
become prohibitive so some of the
problems with IEP which I'm sure you
know is that you know if we want you to
have some content if we have some web
content or whatever file we have you
know we can either cash or authenticate
we cannot do we can never do both
effectively we're securing the channel
over which content is transparent and is
not the content itself that were
securing and effectively users are
asking for what we are the network is
replying
who has bought this watch which is I
mean he says a misunderstanding is that
kind of miss much an example like I'm
giving some buy used to game actually
back in the day was the warehouse versus
high street retailer example where if we
think of content as a material oh good
what is happening today is that we
always had to go to some back-end
warehouse outside some being safely in
order to get what we want and what we
should actually point to achieve is that
say you know popular things that many
people want should be closer and we
don't hair we should not travel that far
you know to get a bottle of milk to go
to shopping more massive shopping more
outside the sea so in order to do that
we need to know what exactly we're
looking for so that's why we need name
data and and we need to have space to
smoke that stuff to do to have that
stuff close at once which is basically
passing and the main promise of ICN was
that the network will be able to support
in network caching now for which reasons
that's bigger than but has always been
the assumption that there is going to be
support for you in there for caching and
and then of course you need resource
management and trust in security
mechanisms so what does a nice unit that
you look like so we have name resolution
which is a fundamental part of any
architecture and we have to do a name -
location mapping so we have a name and
we need to map out to some location and
then once we have that we need to go and
fetch the content we want now depending
on how early or how late in the
resolution process in the code in the
neighbor solution process this name -
location mapping or binding is done and
we can either achieve many of benefits I
mentioned before security multicast
mobility support for mobility and
effectively in native content
distribution network
and and you know the later you do the
binding the binding between name and
location the more you can the more
benefits you have now there have been
mainly two approaches so one is native
data plane approach which is what we can
call name based routing and and these
main supports made laid binding so what
is happening there is that we assume
that a network fooders the actual
network coders are can talk this IC and
language can talk the product understand
the protocol stack and therefore they
can receive and do routing and
forwarding based on these name directly
so there has been one insulation that
mainly supports that which is their
maintained to networking project and I'm
going to give more details later but the
important point for here to remember is
that we have network reuters that speak
the language and therefore the receiver
request and they can forward it natively
so you have a kind of hope to hope hope
by hope resolution and then we have the
name resolution base to look up by name
approaches which and there have been
several projects there where this is
kind of early binding so at the
beginning of the name resolution process
the end client is asking some external
entity where can I find this content
receives some location bark in terms of
IP address or similar or a peer ID or
whatever and then goes and fetches the
contract now depending on how efficient
these can be done you can achieve most
of the benefits but if you neglect and
you just do this you know early binding
and then basically sorting you're
missing many of the benefits now there
have been many projects there mostly
running in the European like funded by
the European Commission and which start
from projects like
[Music]
laser pointer Wow
so there have been many projects
starting from 2000 2009-2010 and going
up to these last ICN 2020 project is one
of the projects that we had with usual
and many other partners in Europe and
Japan which finished actually last month
and of course okay we've got IDF s which
is still ongoing and not many of those
projects are still ongoing for good or
bad reasons so just a few a few pull
into naming naming is the kind of
cornerstone of an ICN architecture and
there are many it's a very big it's a
very big topic area but some of the
fundamental requirements of names is
that they should remain the same after
the content news sorry if you if someone
takes the content and takes it different
is be the name should remain the same in
order to be able to to find it again and
it should they should allow for content
caching so that's something very
important which you can't really have
with you know IP networking because you
know all the cache or the network is
seeing is an IP address and you don't
know what the content behind it is
whereas if you have an Ange content
chunk or content object this means that
you can identify because you request
this by name and therefore you can
retrieve it from anywhere in the network
now okay so naming itself is not really
problem but if we wanted to have you
know a naming should not be topology
dependence that's the location
independence principle ICN is building
on top and the problem is that route
routing is the Balaji dependence so in I
see and if you want to have addressing
through naming that this is this is
something very important to get right
and the nation basically naming
determines route now to go a little bit
further back there is this famous world
by Jakov rector which sometimes is
called director rule which says
addressing can follow the policy or
topology can follow addressing you have
to choose one which makes perfect sense
if you think about it I mean isn't the
main person that designed the BGP
protocol so it's probably right well he
suggests think it is so night pier
routing what we have is much yes okay
someone raised two hands yet yeah hello
Toby all right question about like what
when people say naming and in this
context like what what do they mean is a
name is the name and address is it
something that is you know mutable
versus immutable is it something that's
human readable versus machine readable
like what is meant by right so good
point and pretty much all of the things
that you said so there are some
approaches that say that initially
started as saying you know naming should
be human readable but then these of
course everyone realized that it doesn't
need to be like that it doesn't need to
be human readable the main distinction
the main two properties so the main
distinction distinctions over the years
was whether a name is flux or there is
some hierarchical structure into the
name so if you have a hierarchical
structure just like we have in a URL
then these can help a lot with
aggregation in network rooters as you do
routing and forwarding so this is
something that is a kind of a positive
feature of hierarchical routing now what
is in the hierarchy doesn't necessarily
need to be human readable it can be
anything basically and that's where we
come to the flats namespace is where you
know many have proposed actually you
know hash based addressing where you
know it's more difficult for others to
understand what to do
you with a piece of content but there
needs to be you know if you have it a
name resolution system then you can
route and forwards accordingly the main
property that all of those need to have
is that the name should be unique right
I don't know if this answers the whole
question so there are some examples
later on of what each architecture of
those I'm going to talk about have use
but yeah is this answering the question
or what you doing maybe although we can
get we can go to it later only see some
of the examples but because you say
unique but it's like unique with respect
to what - yeah - every other name in
danger just like you know you have hash
based on the content of of an object and
you want that because you want to
identify this specific object by this
name alright which applies whether it's
to mutable or immutable data because the
mutable data will change right and so
the name is like not necessarily unique
to the data it's unique to like a flavor
of the data right so let's assume I mean
for the most part it has been assumed
that content stays stays static at least
the basic design of course content
itself might change you know the content
of an object might change and then there
is a discussion over whether you know if
it's a hash based thing then that's fine
because a hash is changing but if it's
not and it's a name that is given by
someone then maybe it should be followed
by you know version 2 of the name or
something similar
is that answering at all I mean yeah
yeah helpful for me thanks okay okay
okay fine so yeah so let's move on the
seas with regard to naming I just had a
small you know reference here it's a
it's a very big topic but as I said
there are each architecture followed its
own name naming scheme and naming
structure so we're going to to come back
to naming so so okay any other questions
up until this point and we're going to
get to part two now where there are some
three projects that I mentioned the
first one is the named data networking
project which this has been initially
designed and proposed back in 2006 so it
was kind of conceived by Vaughn Jacobson
when he was Xerox PARC and so when
Jeremy's the main person that basically
designing the congestion control
algorithms off disappea as you probably
know so he was very interested for a
long long time on how can you of course
okay on congestion control and similar
things but also how can you achieve
multicast so he gave the first talk
google Tech Talk in 2006 which is a very
interesting talk I highly recommend it
is a bit long but it's certainly
interesting and then the first paper
they published in ACM connects with Gees
brother big and very good conferencing
the networking space in 2009 so at that
point it was mainly you know a project
running within Xerox PARC then for all
sorts of reasons that is out of scope
here and that the project was kind of
renamed and moved from Xerox PARC to a
bunch of academic universities in the US
it was initially
by the NSF and led by UCLA and Alicia
Zhang as P I where they have follow-up
paper CCR computer communication review
in 2014 and the website is this one and
they've got a really big big collection
of material from papers presentations
videos tutorials and this is a very
active project it's still going
there is an active testbed exists and
people used to experiment with it so
it's one basically together with another
one that we're not talking up going to
talk about today that is still active so
what was proposed there was that the
thin waste of of the protocol stack
instead of being an IEP parka it should
become a Content chunk so I'm pretty
sure you're very familiar with that
because I definitely be to be tried to
do pretty much the same thing now where
the IEP goes is that it is kind of
pushed down and it's obviously not going
to disappear initially was proposed as a
clean slate network architecture where
you know the IP protocol is going to be
replaced or whatever but of course that
was not my intention is that the same
way as we don't necessarily use MAC
addresses in order to route things over
a wide area network the same with IB
would become a lower layer protocol and
on top of it would be named named
content chunks so the in this design
there are two mainly packet types though
is the interest packet and the data
packet and where both of them one basic
component is the content name so names
we're going to see in the next slide but
in this case they're hierarchical and
would look something like that if
someone wanted to reach my web page and
and they've got okay the data packets in
signs and there are some
date signed traits such as freshness
period and things like that kind of you
know TT Ellen and similar things and the
important thing to note here is that the
very effectively the interest market in
the data packets resemble what we have
today with IP packets and
acknowledgments disappeared knowledge
means so it's worth thinking a little
bit about it that you know you have an
interest packet which is about 30 bytes
long or something very small anyway and
it's asking there is each request and
interest for some data is going to be
sent back the data packet is not a whole
content object but is about one kilobyte
or so right so so we're talking about
some you know kind of pretty radical
modification where you know today what
you have is that you have an HTTP GET
application layer and then the network
layer what is happening is that the
sender is pushing data towards the
receiver is starting a connection
through TCP and after in our various
data that is coming is kind of pushed
back by by the disappear sender now here
we have a kind of and then and then upon
receiving you know the data packets the
receiver is sending back acknowledgments
to say that they received that now to
kind of get to where Andy any Easy's we
we need to kind of turn this on its head
and say that the sender is sending first
interest packets and upon receiving the
interest package any sender is going to
reply back with data so it's kind of
upside down and of course yeah you
understand that these would come
together with some congestion control
algorithm that is directly applied on
the named interest pocket than the named
data packet and so it so names there in
this architecture are hierarchical as I
just mentioned - I think this is one of
the architectures
use hierarchical names the parts of the
name they don't necessarily need to be
human readable it could be anything and
but there needs to be some hierarchy
because Reuters in the middle of the
network what they do is that effectively
they do longest prefix machi and
depending on you know what they know out
of all these and where they can reach
they forward accordingly so for example
if you wanted to reach you know an
academic institution in the UK from
Australia you would need to at least be
able to know word for word pockets
starting with UK slash right and the
further the closer you get people you
know Reuters might know more more parts
of the name and therefore they can make
more intelligent decisions now if
someone has happened to download these
before and there is an extra request for
that then the Reuter somewhere in a
remote area far away might might already
know the whole of these so by doing
longest prefix matching it can find that
and retrieve it from close so it doesn't
have to come all the way to where this
content is originally stalled that could
be either end users in and user advices
where it could be in there for caches or
whatever so the more content is becoming
popular the more that the rooters are
getting to know the whole part of the
name and therefore they can serve it
naturally from closer now to achieve
that there are three tables in the main
Indian node architecture the first one
is the content store where it is assumed
that it's a cache memory and that's
where okay there has been a big debate
whether everything that passes through
reuters should go in the cache or not
initially explain in a minute initially
that was proposed in order to recover
TCP or transport layer losses basically
and not happy
to go all the way back to the sender to
get what has been what has been
long-lost further down the path but then
people you know build all sorts of
caching algorithms to make you know the
whole network perform more efficiently
so this is the content store then there
is a pending interest table which is a
table and index basically where every
node is storing their interests that it
has just forwarded further and then when
the data for the interest that the data
is coming back to consume the interest
and once it says that it's going to
remove the name from this pending
interest table and then there is the
feed table which is kind of similar to
the fib tables that rule does have today
where of course instead of having IP
addresses there are there are prefixes
and you know as I said before it depends
how long the prefix that you harvey's
and you forward it out of some interface
so that's the the node structure that
every return is supposed to have in this
in this model and it's a very
interesting structure it brings lots of
challenges as I'm going to say in a
minute but it still is an interesting
design so if we go to a more graphical
explanation we have the requestor here
we have a bunch of frutas and the source
node down there so what is happening is
that the requester is sending an
interest bucket which is going to reach
the first row in the network what these
rotar does opponent getting an interest
is that they check first the cache to
see if the content is there already so
if it is a serve it directly back if
it's not then they check the pending
interest table and this is quite
interesting because as you can
understand you know as interests are as
are thought there they can enable native
multicast so I'm going to explain that
in a minute and if nothing is in the big
table then they check their feet and
they for
accordingly and the next Rooter does the
same they check the cache the page and
if nothing is there a buffet band for
world fair
now at some point which the content the
main content source we who is in a cache
or whatever memory they have they get
the content and send it back now every
root is caching the content locally and
the content is eventually returned to
the requester now when when another
quest comes from someone else for the
same content obviously it's going to hit
the cache and get the content back
directly which is improving the
efficiency of course and what is he's
also it can enable as I said time
shifted multicast because if we have if
the first requester is sending an
interest which is sorting the pending
interest table if another requester is
sent the sense happens to send an
interest for the same thing this route
is not going to forward the interest
second time it's going to say I'm
expecting this content to come back
therefore I'm going to not forward days
and when I receive the content back I'm
just going to send it out of both
interfaces so so the the native
multicast issue is very nicely it's very
nicely covered here another thing that
is covered is that there is support for
mobility so if we assume that these are
not two different requesters for example
and you're sending a request but then
you disconnect from whatever access
point is there Wi-Fi or cell station and
you connect to another one you don't
have to tear down and get a new TCP
connection done you just send the
interest which you know the interest
that you send this when you were
connecting here the content has probably
come back and this cache here so even if
you lost this due to bad connection
while you were transiting to the next to
the next day station what is happening
is that you just send the interest again
and you retrieve the content directly
from the last hope in the network so
pretty pretty interesting knowing
which okay of course comes with
challenges there are two key features of
this architecture is that apart from the
rest that I mentioned is that there is a
connectionless model so there is no
connection establishment basically users
just issue interests and there is data
from data centers that go back and
consume the interest and there is always
a rather strict push based model so
sorry
pool based model so data is travelling
in the network only if someone has
requested it so this has got several
interesting properties carrying in
courage together as I said okay yeah
it's interesting data pocket which is
the TCP connection basically upside down
and of course there are some challenges
right so scaling the fib size is an
issue and it's not an easy one because
we have to assume that you know you need
to keep track of pretty much any
namespace that exists in the Internet
right so of course you don't need to
keep track of the whole of the name as I
said Reuters do longest prefix matching
but even to keep you know the first few
the first few parts of hierarchical name
it has been shown that the field is
going to explode and then and then there
are patent cache poisoning attacks so
the this is not a solved problem and one
that can I mean can be a show so bad
don't know if it's right what to say but
it's a problem that is looking for a
solution basically because someone can
issue interests for contents that do not
exist for content that does not exist
using random lanes and these goes and
fills up the pending interest table of
the Reuters effectively launching a
denial of service attack because you
know nothing else can be stored in there
and I think that's right so yeah that's
the last slide as I said there is a
the project is ongoing there is there is
a live deathbed that people are using
mainly for research biopsies it's the
only proposal it's pretty radical but
really nice design in my opinion and
it's the only one only proposal that you
know does actually name based routing
from the sender to the receiver or at
least that is the main design yeah and
with ease of like you you take a quick
pause here and see you know if there any
interesting features that you think
should be considered further in in the
context of this project or more
generally oh whatever
and have a question you have so I would
ask you that name based routing and name
resolution like look up my name type and
architectures are the two different ways
of going about this yeah how has
different architectures how much overlap
or similarity is there between the two
like are there are there problems that
come up with nd M and you would expect
Ike yet to divest to see or are they
disparate enough that you'd only expect
to see it if we like to started turning
the course of the ship - yeah that's
actually very good question because one
suggestion that I had is that name based
routing one interesting feature or
principle that it brings with it either
it can resolve local content so in my
view a hybrid approach between you know
having a name based system up to some
point and then some resolution entity
that is going to try and find what local
name basic routing cannot find I think
he can hit the strike the right balance
sorry yeah but up until now that's a
very good point that both approaches
have taken either one or the other and
my view is that's a combination of these
two and both of them have problems
scalability problems or performance
problems we're going to see later but
having hybrid of the two has not really
been looked at and I think it's a very
practically it's a very interesting
direction but someone should consider
[Music]
okay hello mate
yep I'm sorry if there are two people
speaking it's just about maybe a
hierarchy of names is that allocated by
some authority or is there yeah yeah
good point yes there is it is assumed
that there is going to be something
similar to the icon we have today but
wherever you know there should be some
central registry for names or not every
name obviously not every document that
we produce and publish every day it
needs to be needs to be registered
up to some point hierarchy to get the
prefix it will need to be agreed between
everyone yeah that was the same question
I had it just sounded like the name base
right it was the same as DNS and I guess
so this with you can you repeat it
oh sorry I had the same question I mean
just about car exactly the name base
driving you know how they knew where to
you know where the next server was
supposed to be and it sounds like it's
very similar with the DNS words right
so yeah so there are a few issues here
you don't necessarily need to know where
exactly the server is but there needs to
be some bootstrapping some bootstrapping
right so the because initially so day
one how how do you get actually the
first entries in the fib table so these
would have to be done by some static
link state routing protocol that would
need to run to bootstrap basically what
he's putting the feed tables and then
yeah so I see so that Steve and raised a
hand yes as far as I can tell key to
presume this is DNS is that with DNS
like I asked one server for the name and
they tell me where to go next and you
keep on doing this recursively but this
is more like I would ask one server than
they would forward them at Ford then
forward and eventually like some caches
that were hopefully or maybe the time of
the station will forward back the
content so it's more that it's like I
it's a forwarding system instead of like
a recursive lookup system yeah yeah yeah
exactly absolutely yet no right is it is
it my turn I was using the chat to raise
my head that's the right approach so I
have two questions here for you yes
interest cancellation how does how does
a node signal to the rest of the network
that they have received the chunk that
they were interested in so I'm assuming
that the chunk doesn't travel backwards
from the same earth as it was advertised
whenever I guess that interest was
appetizer Network this would I don't
know is that the case case yeah yeah
yeah yeah I forgot to mention but that's
a good point yeah so it's a very
symmetric routine that is assumed here
you can take so the return path has to
be the same and this is basically
because as a requester is sending some
interest kind of installing some state
in this PPT there and then through the
feeb you know it says that I have
received interest for this lane where
and when it comes back I have to send it
down through this interface so it's not
going to send it back through
another interface got it yeah
so this effectively creates a single
path for this request on the network
case it would be very difficult to
parallel ice right because at the end of
the day like if you parallel eyes have
you take multiple paths you'll end up
flooding the network with that demand in
a way and with the with the data
transfer that that demand generates
right exactly
yeah yeah yeah yeah in the in the in the
initial in the base design you know
single path and symmetric routing is
assumed but and then you know other
protocols would have to build on top if
you wanted to do some sort of multi path
and then the knowledge of you know
several different paths along and if
there is there any anything being
considered for resiliency and for
redundancy because if one of these nodes
goes down then the path would be broken
right right yes so so the main premise
here is that you know if so it depends
if these node goes down then this
requester will have so so no sorry if
these nodes say goes down then these
rotar would because they've got the feed
table that interconnects basically
everyone knows who is around they can
they can forward the request to someone
else so that is not a big problem
obviously whatever is ongoing is going
to be lost
but then the network is going resiliency
something that can be supported by I got
it
so this persistent overlay in in a way
where it's kinda like we like reform it
with a different path when okay whoever
is directly connected to that node
notices that that node has become
unavailable yes exactly
got it the second question I had is you
mentioned a hard limit of one kilobyte I
think on chunks how just the network
deal with larger chunks and
larger than that or composites of junks
right so there would need to be I mean
hard limit yes it would have to be there
hasn't been any hard limit and I think
what they're currently using is about
four kilobytes or something it's this I
mean has not been I don't think it has
been agreed or standard unease at this
point everything that is larger would
have to go through fragmentation
basically as it happens today as well
with jumbo frames and things like that
mmm got it so at the end of the day it
would be kind of like the file itself or
the chunk that makes sense to the user
to fetch in a single unit the one that's
addressable you wouldn't make the inner
blocks of that larger blob addressable
in themselves right sorry I didn't get
that so imagine you have a one megabyte
file it would be the one megabyte file
that has an address it wouldn't like
it's not there's no chunk
there's no addressing of the inner
chunks that that one mega would be
composed of yeah fragments as you call
yeah yeah there is going to be an
individual name for each individual
chunk so the long name could be so say
this one is not an HTML file but is a
huge PDF file the huge video file of one
megabyte is going to splitting chunks of
one kilobyte or four or five or whatever
and okay there should be some naming
convention that would say this would be
X dot PDF chunk one chunk two and there
would be some sequence number there
where you know we're talking about chunk
number one similar to the sequence
number in the in disappear I kids got it
thanks yeah
[Music]
okay so if yeah if we don't have any
other questions I think we can move yes
so the name based routing approach or a
small part of that together with some
other high bridge is something I think
that could be quite interesting for to
consider in my PFS so the second part
now the second project is project
actually it's a paper called donor data
oriented network architecture it has
never it has not been a project it was a
paper published in 2007 or six in ACM
cecum and because so in terms of timing
it was so early it was basically behind
before you know them the Indian or CCN
projects from Park and from Jacobson so
that's why it was very timely and it
created a lot of interest around it and
some thousands of citations just because
it was so timely so the main motivation
was the same you know content is what
matters and not exactly who is hosting
the content it was supposed to be a
clean slate design of the internet and
with main design goals having
persistence names need to remain when
content moves to another domain or
another location availability which
means access should be reliable and fast
and then authenticity which you know
through some mechanics it needs we need
to be sure that what we're getting is
what we asked for and what the sender is
claiming to be sending so the naming in
donor comes in p.m. which actually
doesn't mean prolapse for a change
it comes in P principal and label so you
can think of principal as it's pretty
central concept around donor
architecture and you can think of the
principal as basically the network
sorry the content publisher or someone
who is cashing or storing the contents
and in practical terms what these pcs
the cryptographic hash of public key of
the content publisher web restoring the
content and then the Rahzel which is a
label which is chosen by the principle
and again has to be unique so it can be
the hash or something but has to be
unique as compared to any other content
in the internet so it has to somehow you
know be uniquely identified with some
bits in this object the packet formats
is of this time that is the data public
key and signature and the clients
obviously verify data by comparing the
hash of the public key what with what
the principle or the content publisher
has provided before now there is an the
other very central thing in the donor
detector is the resolution handler is a
is a network entity kind of thing which
is placed inside the network and inside
the ISPs network in order to handle
requests and redirect do the routing and
forwarding basically so the main
operations is a registered packets so
you can think of that as published so
you have a content you want to register
in the network and say that I have this
content here and if anyone is asking for
it come find me and define which is
basically seeing what state has been
installed in in the resolution handlers
by register messages in order to forward
the requests accordingly okay please
something ok anyone had a question on so
the register process goes something like
this so there is resolution handler
which is pretty much you know you assume
that there is at least one in every isp
domain and whoever has got
we have some content is needs to
register with the local resolution
handler now what the resolution camera
is doing is that it is propagating
upwards in the isp hierarchy or any
peering domain they have to say that I
have I know how to find these contents
with this with this detailed name and
these goes all the way up to the top
level tier one is P or top level entity
and therefore and that's done in order
to be able to actually then find the
content where if there is a client that
is asking for this copy of the content
that we just registered and published
from that resolution handler what
happens is that is going to hit that one
this guy doesn't know what finder is
being forwarded upwards this guy has
seen that there has been stayed
installed in this resolution handler
before so they're going to forward down
and go and find the copy so this figure
here is not exactly accurate because I
think I'm pretty sure in the donor
architecture the head there have been
that were peering messages as well so
these guy here would register the
messages to this guy and this guy
therefore these could be cut shorter and
be forwarded between these two
resolution hundreds to go and find the
content but that's the general idea so
very ck there is some optimization we
did in one project we had which was
called caroling so in a more
it's basically an optimization in
several terms in in the state kept in in
brutus but what is happening there is
that effectively have requesters that
are sending a fine message and then the
resolution handler is going to route
towards where if it doesn't know if
there is nothing in the cache then
they're going to forward it upwards in
the hierarchy until it finds a top-level
domain where it needs to go further down
again and find the content
so yeah this is a new entity a new
entity there the resolution handler it's
an interesting architecture obviously as
you can understand speci and state that
needs to be kept up level and a message
saying that's why I'm asking I think
your connections you're breaking up a
bit
exactly what I have
okay so we just lost Janice hopefully
for a second yes okay so is back
Janice you are currently muted okay yeah
okay here now okay yes okay shut up yeah
pretty bad pretty magic add your own for
you alright you need to resume screen
sharing all right okay right so so we
did the sudden so the knife I was off by
the time I was saying that what I was
trying to say is that as you understand
that the top level resolution handler is
going to experience a lot of stress in
terms of the state that it needs to keep
right because every effectively every
single content piece of inter on the
internet needs to be registered there
right in order to be able to eventually
go back and find it so we did the study
a few years ago try and approximate how
how how much state actually needs to be
kept in ISPs given some hierarchy so we
did that for Donna and for the
optimization we did curling you can see
here that okay D start from small ISPs
and from subdomains basically and then
for small all ISPs but as you as you go
along to find the Tier one is BC that
they need to keep all the content in the
universe and that's pretty similar even
though the optimization for with it in
curling where the top-level domains
don't necessarily need to keep all of
the content but they need to get most of
the content the situation is a little
bit better for large and small ISPs now
assuming 10 to the power of 13
information objects published in the
Internet what these translates to that's
quite interesting is
is the number of servers that Tier one
domains need to keep in order to have
the state storage so this is like
twenty-six thousand sixteen gigabyte ram
servers in order to be able to store
everything in there in their memory and
be able to do two forward requests
accordingly now in summary okay
effectively what it comes down to is
that you have resolution handlers and
each resolution handler needs to keep
routing state for data that is below the
most stress goes to Tier one highest
pieces we said so the initial design was
claiming should be doing main base
routing but these depends on how many
resolution handlers you actually have by
domain so if you have just one then it's
not quite sling base routing is just a
different resolution system if the more
resolution handlers you have the more
you can actually do effectively what you
try to do is you know take advantage of
local connections and forward requests
locally and avoid stressing the rest of
the network as you go up yeah so yeah
that concludes that the second part and
yeah any questions or interesting
features for me for example something
that could would be interesting to have
as a network and in this particular case
the AFS network ROS is to see if there
is if we could have a notion of
hierarchy or you know domain or a
autonomous system structure and these
fool doesn't need to be you know related
to the ISP itself as is in the Dom
architecture but having some sort of
structure is going to help with
scalability but both with performance
when you know the content is basically
resolved and sent back
from the center to the receiver
any other ideas or questions or has this
been discussed before the structure in
terms of some sort of domain like thing
I'm hearing now some thoughts something
to consider then I've had thoughts along
this line in terms of late how to say
organized collaborative pinning so like
friends that in their other friends
content and then ah if you somehow knew
that that content was available from
your friends you can just go straight
there as opposed to just going to the
DHT
sure yeah yeah yeah doesn't take into
account any topological structure does
it so if you're in Canada and I'm here
but we're friends I'm still going to
come straight to you and get it right
yeah I mean you could have like friends
that are geographically located together
right yeah I don't know yeah I think
some topological embedding of some
structure with some name based routing
good I mean it would resolve the local
content locally and which would improve
performance by debate and yeah yeah
hello hi Stephen right Dean oh I don't
know yeah go ahead Kaneesha are there a
like so what are the names look like in
this system again in order to encompass
both like the signature identifier but
also the hierarchy right so the
hierarchy here and does not come in
terms of names so this is how the names
look like it's just the PL
structure where the principle is
basically the Cooper graphic hash off
the public key of the person that is
storing the content or publishing the
content and and L is something that
again has to be
so I would have thought that could be
the hash of the content basically which
is unique to this specific content
object yeah so there is no hierarchy
here is more of a flat kind of structure
in the name in terms of hierarchical
structures that would actually I think
really sing for everyone concerned there
is a you generally wouldn't be had no
structure you kind of implicitly have
authorities yeah which is something we
tend to shy away from it is who I'd be
in essence a bit like there's no
authority you just like have your key in
you have your namespace okay can you
repeat because it was it was cutting I
didn't holiday say in the beginning you
said hierarchy yeah so you know IPS we
currently don't have hierarchies
primarily because that requires a
namespace or any authority as far as I
know I we probably wouldn't want it to
be a location-based as a bit because
then like one of the key goals this
feels like move and still have your
content resolved yeah but you can still
do hierarchical adjusts without making
it missing map to geography by just like
updating I guess the next layer up and
saying hey I moved over here and then
yeah yes so it makes sense so they agree
that would think the hierarchy in the
namespace can be I mean it can be useful
and that's something that could be
considered it can be dangerous because
so the problem there is that that the
naming structure and the topology of the
network are two different things that
are kind of moving in an evolving in
parallel and they can go into totally
different directions and then you end up
with some structure that is not
following the topology at all which
which is kind of already almost
happening with IP before but it's going
to be even more so with ipv6 so it's
kind of danger
and I agreed with that on the other hand
he said topological doesn't need to be
you know yes sorry no sorry let's try to
clear the head right
okay so topological doesn't need to
doesn't mean to necessarily mean that if
we say that this content is here it
cannot move elsewhere it does not need I
don't think to say to be inside the name
if we have any you know if there is an
index somewhere that says within this
area of metropolitan area you can find
these contents then this will be much
faster when you try to deliver the
content basically on the opposite
direction right because you know so I
think some topological embedding needs
to happen but of course I totally agree
that it should not be restricting in
terms of the naming and what happens
when we later want to move the name the
content the way we do with us now is
like you have well that's why we have
contrib writing like country overriding
will saying like hey in here the places
where you can find the content ideally
like we'd have additional information
here but like content product we can be
scoped to where you are in that what I
think helps all this then you would
automatically find people nearby before
t5 you further away but in general like
that the problem is like putting this in
the name or putting topper like location
based off in the name it so I just like
you have yeah yeah I was not meaning put
any location thing in the name
so my sorry
yeah probably it was not expressed
correctly but the hierarchy here there's
no this doesn't didn't mean to say that
the name has to be location independent
and this thing I was not meaning to put
it in the name so it's just if the
network like through through some
gateway or some similar structure like
the resolution handler can keep track of
what content is
right without inserting that in the name
structure could I think resolve content
locally and improve performance is
basically comes down to what we said
before whenever asked a hybrid of name
based and name resolution based okay so
Jim yep
I can hear you sorry
yeah the these are all interesting
schemes there seems to be a tension that
I haven't really heard talk about with
privacy so like you're there utter
you're talking to you knows everything
that you're accessing on the Internet
what what what what does the community
have solutions for right so so the good
thing about that is that the rotor
inside the network if you use some name
based routing the route around the rotor
in the network doesn't know who where is
this going to because there is no IP
address you're just following back and
you're sending based basically named
contents and through the state that is
installed in every route there is going
to come back to whoever is requesting
that so in that respect is better than
what it is today
now the problem is the first hope so
because the first hope can see
everything that you requested basically
and we've got state installed that is
pointing back to you so in that respect
there is there is an open issue there
there ever have been some there have
been some approaches but I have it's
been some years but yeah yeah that's a
good point there but it is in the rather
of the community and there have been a
few if you approach it as a judicial
thumbs yep hello yeah so yes a thought
here is is the the hierarchy are here
maybe feels reminiscent of like court in
the sense that if I can depend on
everyone being ah right I can create the
hierarchy of just being like how many
bits and I go and I like jump all over
the network right
yeah yeah it could be it could be
something similar although yeah remember
all the details but cord has got some
very nice features the thing is that you
know because it is ultimately a DHT
table you know this is becoming
suboptimal
because once you you have to go into the
DHD you might have to travel far away
and therefore the latency of doing that
and sending back the answer could
increase but thorough ISP right
like if each ISPs to have its own set of
resolution handlers you're basically
running like a little mini DHT thing
inside of each isp network and then
accessing them yeah okay yes and no in
this particular case in the done' thing
it was an index like thing so you didn't
have to go and run the DHT but
alternative approaches yeah could have a
DHT which you you you again have to go
around the ring and find what you're
looking for but assuming that this is
kind of topologically embedded in the
same region you don't have to travel far
away yep yep any other questions
ok so right so the last project is
netting project or network of
information and that is actually the
result has been the result of two
consecutive EU projects which started
from roughly 2009 up until roughly 2015
it's been this project what has this has
been designed there is very very similar
to ipfs only p2p and it's very
interesting that they kind of both have
been designed around about the same time
but in completely independent paths so
so the same project is worth mentioning
that it was
quite big and had a bunch of companies
if we go the website there all the big
companies have been contributing or
somehow been involved in in the project
so what is happening in in this
architecture is if you have a request oh
and there is a name resolution system
that is using so this is the name
resolution based architecture where on
the first step you resolve your the name
that you're asking for - the name
resolution service and then this gives
you back the locators and you go and get
the data that you asked for
they're supposed to be caches there so
if something is cached because you'll
get the you're asking for something
based on the specific name of the
content then you can take it from mid
pack the network and or it could be that
some parts of the continent you're
looking for is in this know then some
other parts are down the other note so
you're going to split the request and
try to get data from from many different
nodes now the NRF system the main thing
that was developing the netting project
is a DHT system and multi-level DHT
schemes which I think the minimum is
three levels but it could be more I
think they experimented with more at
least theoretically and if we go a
little bit further down into more detail
if we assume that there is an object X
which is the house of which ET k then
another node we have this netting domain
or it could be an autonomous domain and
the DHT associated with the autonomous
system and then you have the pub level
the HDS and the request is going through
some access now this ratio is reaching
the DHD of this the pop level and it's
going to go further up to the to the
high layer THD if that pop does
in fact it doesn't see where the actual
content is is thought locally and then
he's going to go down and go and find I
mean it's pretty similar to what IPS is
doing but at the multi level and then
the content of course is going to follow
the fastest way back it's worth
mentioning that this access know the
access note they're not doing something
they're not actually keeping any record
of what has been stored so I suspect
that if there is a user here and asks
for exactly the same object X then you
know unless some node there has a cache
the same thing has to happen again so
you know one thing is that if there is a
node somewhere here that does some keeps
an index of things that have been
forwarded recently towards other users
and other hosts then these will
eventually you know forward the request
and then the content in in local nodes
so the naming scheme I guess it looks
quite similar to what you have seen
before so there either and I there is an
authority part here which is the content
publisher but B this part is optional
and the main is whether what kind of
digest algorithm is used and then the
value where the value they use the hash
so effectively is very similar to what
is being used in IB FS or at least that
the initial CID of versions you know it
was before they published and I see
where they are discussing some
interesting things when there's an
interesting features that someone has to
keep in mind where and naming things
with hashes which can be found there yes
so the interesting they're actually they
have some papers where they build a
pretty simple simulator in order to see
what is the benefit when you have
multi-level DHT system so this goes like
they the assumptions there is that okay
several millions of nodes they assumed
propagation delays about two hundred
thousand kilometers per second and these
are the delays that they assumed for
those distances which is of course a
simulator I mean it's not it's not quite
the same isn't it's not quite like that
in the internet there is of course no
nuts traversing or things that are extra
delay so what we're going to see in the
next slides is basically the trend than
what it looked like it's not really
realistic I mean I would probably put
these these ones here multiply by two or
so they may be a little bit more so yeah
so so here what we see is on the y-axis
is the latency to retrieve some content
so two requests go and find it and send
back the object I'm asking for and this
is the number of nodes in the network
which it seems it doesn't make any very
big difference now the different lines
here that's the interesting point
they're comparing a multi-level DHT
which is the mdhd here and skip net so
skip net tonight
it's an old paper which was called can't
remember what the title was but
effectively is charting the namespace in
order to not go and ask every node in
the network but depending on the
charting that you have done you go and
ask those nodes only it's it seems to be
pretty efficient in what is reporting
here but as it just said before in
Stephens comments that's a little bit
dangerous to do so if you if you add
kind of topological things inside a name
and you shard the namespace especially
in terms of cost based names then as the
topology voles these two things could
become quite far away from each other
and different what it was supposed to be
now okay so let's let's focus on the
dashed lines these one this one line
there is saying what happens if we try
to resolve content if you have one day
HD and as you go up you see what happens
if you have three layers five layer
seven layers and nine layers now you
shown here that the multi-leveled HD is
having walls performance on the single
level the level THD but this is for
uniform request distribution if we go to
the sides where it is assumed that would
go a 30 percent level probability or I
mean this effectively says that 30
percent of requests can be on a local to
some DHD to some to the DHD self which
is topologically embedded into some
geographic area then these becomes much
so that one level is not shown here
because it's supposed to be one thousand
which is somewhere up there but what we
can see is that with nine levels of the
HD you can reach performance which is
much much below what it was before and
then you go as you go further up you see
this is for three level d HD 5 level d
HD 7 level d HD itself etc so these
actually shown here a little bit better
here we have again the latency in here
we have the level probability so so how
likely is it consecutively users they're
going to ask for something that has been
requested before and it's within some
geographical region you know the
locality of interest effectively now
what we see here is that the single
level d HD is up to that point and here
we have the multi-leveled h DS which is
starting from mine from the 9 level we
see seven levels five levels and three
levels and we see that up to when we
reach twenty percent off
of similarity in terms of content
distribution in the network these can go
I mean the more levels you have the more
efficient the thing becomes of course
it's never going to be you know anywhere
close to 0.8 or anything but there has
been studies that show that the zip
exponent of as if distribution can be
something between 0.8 and 1.2 so okay so
a value around this area I would say
that is reasonable to assume and
therefore this shows that the locality
of interest can bring massive benefits
if we design the system as such that is
taking these things into account right
so the summary of that it's very it's a
it's very very similar to what ifs ease
today and liquid way the difference is
that having one DHT is becoming you know
it's suboptimal in terms of where you
have to go in order to resolve content
and you know there is no notion
effectively of having you know resolving
getting content close so if someone else
near you habit you know okay that's not
exactly what's happening in ipfs and I
know they're cashing notes and things
like that but effectively you know a
more hierarchical structure multi-level
structure can bring more benefits so
yeah
a quick pose here before yeah
interesting feature in my view is the
different levels of the dates they have
been supported there any other thoughts
or previous discussions from whether
anything like that makes sense either in
terms of topological embedding or in
terms of topic level or yeah mullion
I'm curious if there's been any studies
of like populations of internet requests
and how much overlap there is in a
topological region because that that
seemingly makes a very large difference
so it'd be interesting to analyze how
much overlap there actually tends to be
within a locality to understand where
current network practice falls on that
graph yep
yeah absolutely there are studies there
are old studies and newest studies but
people have been trying to find out you
know how what is a reasonable percentage
doxa to to assume they're in order as we
build networks and optimize networks
what is reasonable to assume so it's
worth looking into those yet so - two
questions one is so this is all dealing
with immutable content right yep the
other is from what I remember that's
been a while the like even before like
kid only and such were published there
were thoughts like well yeah let's let's
try and have like embed the topology
more into the system and kid Emily I was
sort of like ah this is hard what if we
just make it random mostly because
actually like finding the topologies
when you're not doing like the ISP thing
and like just dictating them from the
top down is sort of difficult like I
don't know like if this the multi-level
DHT was that run in practice or mostly
just simulations so there there was a
test bench
I don't know how global it was I can I
can find out but there is there is code
that is available and there will see a
system that was actually built and not
only simulated yeah certainly there was
go there I don't know how much stress
test it was a stress test it but
yeah yeah because when you start dealing
with like people who have like like
weird like yeah sort of a symmetric
connections and and knots and all of
that like figuring out like where
actually everyone is to help build the
optimal topologies can become difficult
yeah yeah keeping a node to have a look
at the code and what they produced okay
yeah I've seen some other things Dylan
old owl or both for colleagues on would
be to be bb/d f/c
was supposed to originally have a
multi-leveled HD using coral which just
guesses the levels based on latency it's
like most viewers would all work
together and sort of like
collaboratively figure out they happen
to be in some low latency group and then
there was reformed this is just the real
okay okay so the reefs plan to get these
I mean for this to be the main part at
some point or eventually yes okay yeah
yeah and do you think the crowd design
is a kind of optimal one in order to try
and capture things like locality of
interest and neighborhood effect or
whoever whatever we call it I don't know
if is a better sister currently I I
think it there may be some room for like
a hybrid system that uses like your look
like your literal local network is like
the bottom tier and then maybe you can
automatically configure certain IP range
for like the next year or you can use
like your local ISPs information but
then beyond that actually these are
usually the most correct I guess yeah
yeah absolutely I agree yeah okay yeah I
have been so I think most of this would
be applied or would be deployed at the
ISP level right so it would be kind of
like some pre-arranged deals or
relationships with an implicit trust
no relationship between parties and so
on have there been any any any research
into how these concepts could be
extrapolated to to appear to be air
networks where that are inherently trust
less need to model for Byzantine you
know false and so on
ya know a project of things called ifs
and the p2p and so maybe maybe I forgot
to mention in the beginning that's all
these first of all they they were
proposed as kind of not replacements but
the next level of what the internet
protocol stack should look like so if
they were supposed to be able to address
and they'll ever the whole of the
content in the whole thing to net and
you know like for everything just like
IP does today so it was quite risky
projects and you know not blue sky but
you know the woods you know let's do
something quite radical so that's one
thing and the second is that yes there
was in all of them the wreath
involvement of the IASB to some extent
but for example the resolution handler
was supposed to be one in every RESP I
don't know if it would need to have the
agreement but I guess from a business
model perspective someone would have to
get this machine and go and put it back
connected to everyone you know so who
would kind of foot the bill for that
therefore the ISPs the most you know
straightforward thing to you approach
and go and put it there so yeah yeah so
I have seen there is some discussion if
we want to take these trusts out of the
IASB or the IASB out of the picture as
to how we build a system a system where
this is not involved or we do not
blindly trust the ISP or whether is the
infrastructure provider then of course
what comes in is in my opinion the
incentives and I have been have seen
some discussions on it
you know incentives should not only be
around for storage and you know for that
kind of thing but even for routing
providing routing information and
routing hints vo if you remove trust
someone has to replace that so how do
you do that yeah I agree yeah yeah okay
and then right so I put some resources
here where some people might you know we
might want to look at later there is a
hybrid ICN approach which is also an
active project and it might be worth
looking at a sping currently developed
at Cisco so it's not a dead project it
was not done at some point it's an open
source project at Cisco where why is
happening there what they're doing is
that they're assigning their dressing
content chunks or content item and items
with an ipv6 address so every item gets
an IP BC except ipv6 address on its own
and that's how they kind of they they
also have the interest in data packets
and the sizes are pretty much the same
it's just that then the naming is quite
different and it's a really interesting
thing both keeping an eye on the code
these open sources of just this link
there currently I think it's only Cisco
people in part place that are developing
this and actually we're colleagues where
we're working on the same project
together but I have they have just
released a new version of what they're
doing and then in in simulation tools on
top of what Molly suggested about
measurements and you know trying to find
out measurements another thing that I
think would be interesting is to try and
find simulation tools so we have for
example data simulator which is
basically a caching simulator we have
real estate I mean it's been years and
it has got some feasibility the main
person that developed that they the
moved and I know that they have been
using the simulator within fastly so
it's been developed and maintained and
it is something that could you know get
data as input and project what then the
performance is going to be like as an
output so before doing releases I know
role is he's working on that and is very
interesting so I mean some of that could
be those dentistry Ducker emulator for
NS three and that works in relation
three so what we have actually done here
is you get a docker version of some
release of God the FSA and you put it
into the NS three simulator then
whatever the scripts or the network
topology you want to run in a 3d space
very big and you know simulator with
many many features so you can get a
pretty realistic topology based on
production code no topology performance
based on production code so that work
could be something interesting to look
at in this case yeah so there are some
yeah some thoughts that I mainly I mean
mostly talked about those but the main
thing is you know the me an outcome of
these discussion should be you know what
could we borrow is there something
interesting that deserves further
thinking before you know allocating
resources like big resources you know I
think we should have and could have you
know either follow-up online discussions
or physical a physical meeting where you
know we kind of pick a few things out of
what we discuss today and see you know
what we could take into account so in my
view as I said some topological
embedding of some structure or some
nodes is going to improve performance
considerably whether this is done
through the corral techniques or some
other technique I don't know but I think
the system moves and you know the the
delivery delay is going to start
becoming an issue maybe not now maybe in
five years but you know if the system is
supposed to be kind of content delivery
network the CDN kind of approach these
guys have done crazy things and in order
to get even close to that performance
you know some topological thing needs to
be in the whole system not missing the
naming I'm not not saying that in the
system so these can come in terms of
some name based some name based routing
as opposed to only name resolution based
routing so some nodes that can keep
track of what is being cached locally
and redirect local nodes when something
gets popular before getting before
hitting the DHD I think that is also
something that can take huge advantage
of the kind of interests and then as we
just said routing and trust basically so
how do you do that all oh they're both
have assumed that there is a nice baby
we put a box there with some software
and does that and we trust that it does
that so if we remove the trust something
else needs to be in place for those yeah
yeah Jim yep so one sort of low-hanging
thing I was thinking for the name-based
stuff is we actually did do some name
base stuff in IP NS right you can you
can use a DNS name and then that gets
resolved to an IP NS key which then is
used to look up in the DHT but like
we're not we're just sort of using that
in the resolution process for DNS lookup
and then throwing it away or if we
didn't throw that away we actually use
that I'm sure Dean has yeah I thought
this somewhere and
the next thing I want to look at more
closely into your IP NS and there is a
thread or of the DNS link that takes the
XD there which could stay for a bit
longer or could have some other metadata
information that it can be kept or
helping some different way but yeah good
point
the one point with that is like where
we're not using those IP and s lookups
very often like there's just like the
what use easily used for websites only
yeah so we're not because it's mutable
we want to have immutability so cool
yeah great yeah so yes I put some
thoughts here on the there are mainly
three parts to the lifetime of the
content so one is a content publishing
and there is this huge discussion on how
do you provide how do you provide the
records how do you publish basically in
register content then there is a content
storage which is okay five-point storage
market and then there needs to be I
believe I don't know but eventually
needs to be timely delivery as well so
so content needs to be provided but with
some isolation some guarantees to keep
cold or service high so in terms of
content publishing it's there is
something that discussed briefly with
Steven at some point last week or the
week before which he starts in my
opinion caching is different storage so
it's different to say that someone is
storing something and that is going to
be there for longer time periods and you
know it's going to become unavailable
you know if Christy goes out and is
different you're having someone that is
caching and is unreliable unstable
because they just throws a lot up and go
so I think this needs to be reflected in
some node class kind of thing where
there are some caching nodes which are
unstable there are some caching nodes
which are stable and then there are
that's actually store contents and in
order to get that you know there needs
to be techniques that actually both
measure the participation of nodes in
the network and therefore kind of assign
them or build reputation of some sort
and you know they are allocated in one
of those categories and then how do we
actually do the provide the records you
know I have this content cache here is a
whole different thing and there are
interesting techniques that say you know
to estimate basically on when did some
node started cashing this and how much
time has has it been since then try to
probabilistically infer whether some
piece of content is still in this can
show it has expired and this Alice has
been pushed out of the cache therefore
you know we can assume without having to
provide to send out provide the records
all the time we can we can
probabilistically know whether to
contact some node or not then it's
content storage which you know it has to
be reliable and available and it needs
basically smart replication so the
content placement needs to be
intelligent so that you know when I
receive some content here other we need
to have a mechanism to to see whether it
makes sense to replicate this content to
other nodes that are close by because
you know I might disappear from the
network but this content might become
popular all of a sudden therefore it
would be good to have it somewhere close
by and be able to identify it as such in
order to serve other content other users
you know without having to go after the
DHD and have to resolve the comb then
also from start again and then of course
you know content delivery
he's another tricky point but I guess
that's on the plan this is a little bit
further and out towards the future
so yeah so so kind of a design proposal
is that which I'm sure I have seen some
of them in github pages I just thought
of putting it in one or two slides a
that's not every client should be should
be providing routing information there
should be one Gateway node or entry node
or if you I don't know which we trust
first somehow and then these are sitting
before the DHD so that we can resolve
content that is local and effectively
through a multi then a multi-layer DHT
approaches obviously providing pointers
to services rather than static content
which kind of kind of comes down to this
terrible figure that I put together
tables but if the main point is that if
you have clients here and you have this
local gate where your whatever other
thing we want to collate you know if it
keeps if this gateway here is keeping an
index of what other clients have been a
request could be resolved locally
without even hitting the local DHT which
is there then if something is not there
obviously you need to go to the deity
and that may be different levels of the
HDS
but you know having one node that he's
basically attached to several different
page the Rings this makes you know
latency to be pointed to different
levels here or there minimum you don't
have to go to the other side of the
planet in order to get a pointer to the
deity that you need to go so physically
this is one machine that is just keeping
index is two different things and down
here is you know it's not could be he's
keeping an index as in the table not
before it goes into the DHD so structure
like this I think could you know in the
long term be something that should be
considered and of course he's the issue
of trust right so I'm not forgetting
that it's just
yeah yeah and of course the design I
think depends on the desired outcomes
you know if it's a faster if we won't
try professedly p2p to be a faster CDN
Network then you know there needs to be
a lot of work as I said you know CDN
systems are crazy sophisticated if it's
a permanent you know storage and backup
network then you know with deity of one
or a few of some sort then I think the
target is there and it's it's totally
fine and yeah you might have noticed I
have not mentioned the word security and
privacy too much but this of course is
something that needs to be there and and
there is related work on that and I know
other people in the collapse have been
working on that it's just I decided you
know to keep it out of that and subject
to a different meeting if we want and
actually yes if you fell asleep I don't
know it's time to wake up now yeah and
any other questions and feedback there
is this feedback form that George will
send or has sent already at the moment
but yeah
any any any kind of feedback now or
later yeah a bit yes thank you so much
for this I really enjoyed like just
revisiting a lot of these concepts like
reminding me a lot of things that I was
like learning new things
thank you so much for organizing this I
absolutely lose interest yes yes
awesome awesome so I have a bunch of
thoughts the the one that I will choose
to like just bring up is and like you
were kind of like that you need at the
end like it seems to me that like in
both of these communities either at the
fast fast we disappear I now so their
name data networking or even like the
DHT research there is kind of like this
belief or this hope to find a one size
fits all DHT
even if it's a multi layer or
like a clustering EHT doesn't matter
like like it seems like we are always
tweeting like store storage of data as I
can a database problem when in reality
is like a data access so let's watch
that a publishing problem right like I
see something missing here and then I
was hoping maybe like you know of some
work or maybe like I it's already done
and I just don't know about it which is
like how can we tell like when we create
the data how can we describe with the
data itself like how it is supposed to
be accessed so I think like a blog maybe
there's like a blog post every week so
like user should not be like resolving
HD records every second because they
they probably will not get or or as a
user that wants like some data I want to
access data but I want my access that be
private so I want to pick different
kinds of mechanisms that enable me to do
that given the resource type available
is there like any work towards direction
or right so this is pretty close to some
folks I had myself in the past but no in
the very distant past actually where all
that is you know every piece of content
comes together with some metadata and
these are you know if it's a blog post
which is updated every minute then these
listened RT feeds my web page there is a
data debris here then these decent if
it's even going further and saying this
is some piece of personal information
out of my wearable devices that I want
to keep totally private and totally
encrypted and give access only to my
doctor and no-one else not even my
family or whoever and then these needs
to have totally different properties
right yeah so so I totally agree with
you I I am not straight my hand aware of
an architecture that supports that but
there have been recently approaches by
you know you kind of attach metadata
data and that's how you can achieve a
few things how scalable this is to
address the whole of the internet I'm
not very sure but I agree there is a
very nice direction for someone to to
look at
I really wonder if this is a problem
that could not only be solved by like
using AI like ml and so on because like
what we are talking about so many
variables and so many options that you
will actually need some help like to
actually choose the right path in which
like you would publish something or you
would access something yeah yeah cool
okay this is sort of a separate question
but there's been a lot of this research
and like and I've been following things
like multicast which have been around
since the 80s and they really took off
and I feel like some of these things
it's just like the technologies are more
efficient or the ideas are more
efficient but they're incompatible with
existing business models like artists
tend to sell oversubscribed they don't
put storage or squid caches in or
anything to improve the experience the
experience is improved by CD ends which
have a separate business model where the
publisher pays or companies like Google
so it this the current environment
favors massive massive companies like
Google and Amazon and so there's not
that rich incent or there's no not much
profit to be made we're at ispeed levels
to you like put put in like more
expensive Cisco routers I mean yes I
agree it's a very big discussion and
it's mainly business thing so I speak
could do much more one problem with with
all that is that is not only about
putting storage but becoming an issue of
trust again because the content
providers they want to know
how many clicks they got for their
content right and they don't necessarily
trust the ISP that they're going to
provide the record to say you had that
many clicks at this time of day at this
time of year right and even if you trust
your local ISP or whatever you do not
necessarily trust somebody that is
10,000 miles away right so there has
been this thing with accountability
basically where caching has been a big
thing but it has not taken off as much
as it could
and then there was a big CDN company
that came and everyone trusted them
that's why they give the content you to
them now with with structures like you
know permanent names and name data this
is much easier to do right because you
can you can have some proof that
something has been requested then has
been forwarded and if someone is asking
for that name is asking for that name
and this cannot change you know and you
don't need any dpi or anything that you
can do you know under the hood basically
but it totally agrees a business model
issue and yeah now the thing is yeah
yeah one more question around like just
the the scale of these test pads and
their like their availability how easy
it is to like understand and test like
all of these projects from your
experience like what is the that
friction that exists for example if we
were to like try some of these projects
just for ourselves or like try to check
in on to their test that so that we
could share the stats and compare it
like if we were to develop your peer
benchmarks that compared to some of
these projects in terms like resolution
and so on yeah our available are those
so there are many so out of those that I
have talked about it's mainly the end
the end
object that is kind of alive and there
is a deathbed and everything so that can
be used it can be compared they can be
measured that they are very open to any
new user or any new collaboration or any
new testing and so I know so it's on
that side yes everything good
so the NetBeans project for example it's
not operational anymore I know there was
a prototype I know there was a test bed
of some sort and there is open source
code available certainly I don't think
it's maintained anymore but the fact
that we can get the code and deployed
somewhere in tests that can be done I
have a notonly so I'm going to to check
with them and see where is the code
actually yeah yeah and as I said the
donor thing was the donor architecture
was a paper so there might be some coach
with the papers even some github
repository but it was never really you
know it has never grown as big project
yeah yeah yeah yeah I'd like to I'd like
to mention to add to it the beads
thoughts of how much of this can we
actually evaluate we use potentially you
know I think that's a fundamental
difference between what these projects
are trying to address and the kind of
the the lay of the land that they're
actually seeing that is addressable
versus what we are trying to do we are
inherently peer-to-peer right so these
projects are actually assuming that the
internet will be will be reshaped and
will require active collaboration by
very powerful actors out there so I
think the like it's great that that's
very bad mission I think like I would in
order to stay practical I would say
let's try to understand the pieces of
these projects particular you know like
problem solutions tightly scoped
solutions work particular problem
domains that they've actually you know
deployed or proposed or modeled or
simulated or whatever
try to use those as inspiration versus
actually trying to do not replicate or
even consider for like even consider at
that deeper level because what we trying
to do is fundamentally different ya know
in order to stay like super practical
it's like let's dice and slice these
projects apart understand the guts of
them understand which parts we could get
inspiration from and potentially use
that as input to our research processes
yeah yeah I agree yeah this is all based
on like into our presentations just the
way that firstly thinking about yeah
yeah I think there was a Dean and Davina
thing you raise your hand oh well let me
just quickly step in before guys please
continue the discussion but in case you
haven't seen the way to the chat it is
there and we would appreciate it if we
could answer it right away at the end of
the call but for now I think Kadeem was
next yes yeah so just thinking a little
bit about you were saying about
multi-level DHT stuff and what the vid
was saying about some like you know
machine learning type of approach to
help map these things out and gives
makes you think of like sort of uh you
know mathematicians only know like three
numbers there's zero one in more than
one and and so like when you have if
it's like a fixed number of like but if
the multi levels are like fixed as
opposed to like sort of this I don't
know continues like this spectrum of
like growing those are like two very
different ways of looking at it in the
sense the continuous like the
continuously growing DHT is basically
just one system whereas a multi-level is
like you've intentionally designed that
as multiple levels sort of did does the
multiple levels thing as being like
discrete like what do you think are the
advantages there
so the advantages there I think is that
we basically when you when you enter
this ring in order that the next point
that you're pointed to might be too far
away
apart from that knots and things like
that even these can be very far away so
the the time to go there and then go to
the next and then go to the next until
you hit the point where you have the
local node you know you get the note
that knows where your content the
content that you're looking at is can be
both long in terms of the resolution
like to go around the ring and then the
note that you're going to induct you
might also be too far away and that's
when the contents delivery starts right
which has to go through a possibly long
you know long haul path from a different
continent so if there is a more smaller
notion of ADHD which is registering
local content then you know the locality
of interest comes together and it can be
exploited you know by looking for
content within the same metropolitan
area rather than having to go all the
way to Japan to come back and find that
the content is here if you see what I
mean but can you do that with like like
far like far jumps right so there's like
extensions on on corridor instead of
just reaching all the way across the
network in in key space you also reach
to like people that are closer to you
and sort of you break the network up
into halves and quarters and eighths
yeah you could do that with latency and
be like well I'm gonna fill up most of
my table with people nearby and I'll
feel some with people far away all right
right yeah yeah yeah yeah I mean it
could be done I have to
I really have to have a closer look into
the core design because it's been some
years since I last reg I mean the
details of how this is done but I I know
from people yeah yeah okay okay yeah
that that's a point yeah yeah Raul had
machine yeah no okay anyone else I can't
see everyone I am I'm able to raise my
hand okay but I did have a quick
question it seems like caching and like
redoing a lot of the network to be more
named it and that work who like or like
information-centric network like seems
to violate the end end principle in some
ways then what the which principle the
end-to-end principle right yeah how does
that conflict manifest in discussions
around these projects and like within
the IETF or like within big groups that
have a lot of control over the Internet
it seems like this is like is this
acknowledge just like it could be really
interesting is like a small like as a
possible alternative and the way just in
future but we're not gonna think about
it
do people tend to just just miss this
effort or do people generally agree that
like this would be a good thing but it
has to be problems yeah yeah so there is
there is discussion lately to say that
you know there is enough consolidation
of Internet services and that's not good
and things have to change there has
there hasn't been any great movements I
mean there are some people some people
that we were talking about about 10
years ago in the IETF or in some
conferences but there hasn't been
anything fundamentally actually done so
yeah the discussion I think he's
starting now and
we need to see how these new protocol
stacks how you know content-addressable
systems can help with us or not help
with that in some cases yeah and would
you say the reason why that conversation
is starting now is that they're like it
doesn't seem like it's tied to business
type app like who pays for these sorts
of things is that the businesses were
interested or there's like a clear
financial incentive or is there some
other reason I don't know just people
waking up to the privacy issue and it's
been around time it's been about time
yeah but yeah I would I mean I have
tried to talk about these things for
years and years with people but it was
all always coming you know a secondary
thing and people looking to improve
performance and this and that and you
know you end up with solutions like VPN
and you're saying okay I don't care if
there's more delay on some privacy so
which throws away all the performance
things that someone tried to do away
because I don't care you know like
Steven I don't say this helps improve
the antenna principle because like
currently in order to have the
interprets pole you'd like HTTP we've
had to layer on HTTP it just absolute
prevents any and all caching yeah but
this is effectively like the endpoint is
actually like the next router and then
they're on point is the next router so
point-to-point is still like you
probably have encrypted or secure
connections but like you don't really
care about which I'm I guess it's the
best way of putting it
in terms of privacy you can you can get
privacy this is with encryption but yeah
there's only there's how you can get
some privacy there like you still
problems with like content routing and
the fact that intermediaries will get to
know what you're looking for which kind
of sucks yeah yeah great yeah yeah and
you need those things I mean be
especially because sometimes not
sometimes you know you know those cases
names have to be unique and permanent
these means that you know Reuters or
whoever he's the forwarding
t knows exactly exactly what you're
forwarding right so in terms of network
neutrality and all that stuff you know
basically information is out in the real
you know you don't even have to do the
packet inspection in order to actually
see what's in that packet which is
another thing I don't know that concerns
me a little bit but all right any more
thoughts and questions and okay there's
lots of chap there okay yeah so there
was this survey form would be nice to
get some feedback yeah but if no one
else has any question then they can keep
it to that
thank you
I think we're I'm so well thank you so
much yummies
this was really great and thanks
everyone for coming and again we really
care about feedback so hope you know if
you want to use the next two minutes
it's a short form and this will also
help us plan B you know future workshops
the remotes are in person and yeah I
mean that's it have a great weekend
yeah thanks everyone for coming I hope
you found it useful any feedback or
anything that you think would be worth
checking for whatever reason just drop
me a line